Tue 11 Mar 2003 08:28:26 AM

Dear Don,
 
> There must be a wrong assumption somewhere, because this solution does
> not give the largest possible value.
 
You're right, and it resulted in an incorrect equation.  Now that it's
fixed, my objective function is smooth so I have a lot more confidence in
this answer.  My equations assumed the center of the $200 circle was in
the $100 region.  Now they can handle both cases.  This assumption was
correct for when I evaluated the regions being of equal value.
 
The solution to this "ponder this" is the value of the region enclosed by
the fence is $114256.54.
 
See the shape of the fence in construct2.png.  It is composed of 3
circular segments.  The first arc is centered 24.76 m north and 14.03 m
east (or west) of the tree.  The center is later found to be on the second
arc.  The second arc is centered 22.38 m due north of the tree.  The
radius of the first ($100) arc is 28.46 m and the radius of the second
($200) arc is exactly half, 14.23 m.
 
Because the radii are colinear at the point where the fence crosses the 20
m line, this means that the fence has the same slope on either side of the
fence.  In other words there is no angle or corner in the fence.
 
I used the principal from Dido's problem and the isoperimetric theorem
(the circle encloses the largest area for a given perimeter).
 
Thank you for the hints.
 
Kind regards
 
Chris Shannon
 
http://www.enel.ucalgary.ca/~shannon/
 
Finagle's First Law:
 If an experiment works, something has gone wrong.
 
***** 

Fri 07 Mar 2003 02:56:52 PM

Dear Redaer,
 
There must be a wrong assumption somewhere, because this solution does not
give the largest possible value.
 
Incidentally the final answer you give ($11346.66) seems to be off by a
factor of 10; was there a transcription error?
But even restoring that factor of 10, it is not the correct value.
 
One might re-examine the assumptions.  In particular, what leads to the
upper part being exactly a semi-circle?  Could it be a larger or smaller
part of a circle?
 
Don Coppersmith
 



*****



The shape is composed of circular segments, see construct.png
 
It is symmetric about the north-south axis.  The fence starts at the tree
and is a circular arc that is centered 24.72 m North and 11.75 m east of
the tree.  The radius of that arc (r1) is 27.38 m.
 
Once the fence reaches the 20 m line, it is a circular arc with radius,
r2, 15.21 m centered at 20 m north of the tree (a few micros into the
$200 region).
 
The value of the property is $11346.42.
 
I used the principal from Dido's problem and the isoperimetric theorem
(the circle encloses the largest area for a given perimeter).
 
http://www.cut-the-knot.org/Generalization/isop.shtml
 
l1 covers the $100 region, leaving 50-l1=l2 to cover the $200 region.
The ends of the fence are fixed at (20,y) and (20,-y), but the shape of
the fence must be determined.  Since it does not matter how far it extends
it to the region, a circle covers the largest area given a fixed
perimeter, l2.  If the shape was anything other than a circle, the
isoperimetric theorem would be violated.
 
Imagine the rest of the circle is completed with area A1.  If A1 is added
to the area enclosed by any other shape of length l2, the result must be
less than that of the complete circle.  Therefore the circular segment is
the largest area of all curves of length l2.
 
For debugging and for interest I calculated the shape for different cost
values.
 
The points on the diagram are loci of the center of the circle when the
value of the expensive region is varied from $100/m to $300/m in steps of
$10/m.
 
When the regions are of equal value, the answer is as expected, it is one
circle.
 
I've attached the matlab program (circles.m) I used to maximize the area.
If you have the optimization toolbox, you can run it with
 
> [aandb area] = fminsearch(@circles,[15 -20])
 
If not try the attached file to iterate through possiple circular shapes,
it moves a and b on the diagram.
 
> makesurf
 
Thank you for another interesting and challenging problem.
 
Chris Shannon
 
PS, please let me know if I'm incorrect.  I know my answers are not exact,
in order to achieve exact values, I'd need to learn some calculus of
variations.

